Ethernet network cables
Are used in local area networks.
Made from copper.
They are "twisted pair", meaning they have pairs of cables that are twisted around each other. The two cables are twisted together
to improve electromagnetic compatibility.

UTP - unshielded twisted pair (ethernet cable)
Consists of 4 pairs colored wires twisted around each other. They are twisted to prevent electromagnetic interference (crosstalk).

STP - shielded twisted pair (ethernet cable)
Same as UTP, but there is a foil shield all around all cables to prevent electromagnetic interference leaking in to the cable from
outside and also from the outside into all cables inside.
Is used rather in industrial applications.


In case you wanted to setup your own cables, you can buy a huge roll of cable and then remove foil from the cable and then attach
RJ45 connector with proper sequence of those paired cables.


It does not matter which standart you use, the result is the same. (568A vs 568B)
568A (wireing standart of connecting twisted cables to connector)
Order of cables:
white-green
green
white-orange
blue
white-blue
orange
white-brown
brown

568B (wireing standart of connecting twisted cables to connector)
white-orange
orange
white-green
blue
white-blue
green
white-brown
brown

Straight (patch) cable
Straight cable is when both ends of cable are wired using the same standart, like 568B and 568B.
This is the most common type.
Used to connect computers to hubs, switches, modems, routers... (connection of dissimilar devices)

Crossover cable
Straight cable is when both ends of cable are wired using the different standart, like 568A and 568B.
Is used to connect two similar devices, like computer and computer or switch to switch etc.


Categories of twisted pair cables:
They differ by speed they can handle without having any crosstalk (interference)
Category 3	10Mbs
Category 5	100Mbs
Category 5e	1Gbs (enhanced)
Category 6	1Gbs (10Gbs when cable < 100meters)
Category 6a	10Gbs Augmented
Category 7	10Gbs (with shielding of cables)
Category 8	40Gbs (distance 30meters)
