MAC Address - media control access address
It is a identifier that every network device uses to uniquely identify itself on a network.
The MAC address is unique to each physical device.
The number is made up of 6 byte hexadecimal number.
There are possible 281 trillion possible addresses.
The first three bytes identify the manufacturer, the last three bytes is number unique to each device. 00-04-5A-63-A1-66
Is often called also hardware or physical address.
Possible formats: 00-04-5A-63-A1-66; 00:04:5A:63:A1:66; 0004.5A63.A166
Purpouse of MAC address is so network devices can communicate with each other.
Public IP address are unique, but still public and private ip addresses can periodically change, that is the reason the MAC address is used
	because MAC adresses are permanent (do not change).
Ip address is used to locate a device, but the mac address is used to identify the device. Both have to be used. There is not one without the other.


Example from real life:
There are 3 PCs and router on a local network connected via switch. PC1 wants to comunicate with PC2, so it sends ARP (address resolution protocol)
asking the whole local network (those other two pcs and router, whos ip address is XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX? The PC2 responds with its MAC address, because
the ip which the PC1 was looking for matches the ip of the PC2. Once the PC1 knows the mac address of the PC2, the communication can start. 
Now suppose you got still the same local network as above, but you want to communicate with google.com. You write an address google.com into browser
and it gets translated by DNS server into ip address. Now PC1 sees that the address returned by DNS server does not match local subnet, so PC1
directly sends request to the ip address of default gateway/router for its MAC address. Once tha PC1 has the MAC address of the router,
the PC1 will send the data to the router. Routers job is now to find the optimal path to the destination. The previous has to communicate
with the next router which follows it, meaning the preceeding router will again have to get the MAC address (through ARP if layer 2) of the next router.
The same system continues until the data reaches final destination.


So each time the data is passed to another device, MAC address needs to be known.
The ip address is used to locate and get to the final destination.
The MAC address is used at each step on its way to the final destination.


It is possible to find your MAC address in 'ipconfig -all' under name 'physical address'. It is possible that you can have more MAC addresses
at your computer, for example your network card, USB for wirelless wifi access to net, or USB for wirelless bluetooth access to net...etc. 

