WIRED CONNECTON
Star
There is a centralised entity like hub or switch. Each device is connected to the central entity with its own cable.
Advantage is that if some connected device or cable fails, others can run. If the central hub or switch dies, whole 
network goes down.

Ring
Each computer is connected with exactly two neighbours, meaning one pc left + one cable and other on the right.
Meaning there is a closed loop (ring) when it comes to cabels. Each data packet is therefore sent across whole ring until
it reaches the final destination.
This topology is very old and is rarely used today.
If one pc goes down or some cable gets destroyed, whole network goes down.

Bus
Old topology that is rarely used today.
All devices are connected to a single cable (backbone) which is called bus. Meaning from each computer there lead one cable to
the main bus which is then backbone to all computers. When a given pc wants to  join bus, there has to be used BNC/T-connector
(it is really T shape fyi). The backbone is a "coaxial cable". The main bus has to be terminated on both ends,
or on any unused connection using "Terminators", else the data would bounce back (called signal reflection) and it would not work.

Mesh
In this topology each computer is connected with each computer. This is very robust system which is unlikely to fail but is
expensive and hassle to connect everything togeter.
This is rarely used on local area networks.
It is rather used in wide area networks - internet. (basically on the most upper network scale)



WIRELESS CONNECTION
Ad hoc
Devices in adhoc communicate P2P (peer to peer). There is no central hub or anything.

Wireless mesh
There is a modem (or optics), switch and bunch of wireless access points. The access points are connected with other access points
if they are within reach. This means that you can access the net everywhere where are access points. Once you are connected with 
certain access point, the trafic is routed via other connected access points until you reach the gateway out of your local network.