Powersupply
Main function is to supply power to a computer.
Coverts electricity into specific current and voltage a pc needs. 
The connectors of a powersupply (there are more types) connect directly to a motherboard or to components on the motherboard.
FYI do not ever buy cheap powersupply, it could blow up or anythin...

P1 connector
Main power connector.
Connects directly into motherboards ans supplies it with power.
20 (older) or 24 (newer) pins on connector


P4 connector
Plugs near CPU.	
Its purpouse is to supply more power into CPU.

P8 connector
Plugs near CPU.	
Its purpouse is to supply even more power into powerhungry CPUs.


PCI express connector
6 and 8 pin connectors (can be used only of of them or also both at the same time)
Supplies power to highend PCI express GPUs.
They are plugged directly into videocard.
Some top GPUs might require 3 8pin connectors to supply it.


SATA connector
15pin connector that supplies SSDs, HDDs and case fans (vetraky).


Watts
Usual range between 200 and 2000Watts. 
Average PC has source of 600W, but high end computers with a lot of componets inside can have above 1000W.


Modular, Non modular, Semi modular powersupplies
Difference between these is how many cables can you actually remove from the powersupply.
The less cables in the computer case the better cable management, and also the better air flow (lower temperature)
Non modular - you cannot remove any cable.
Modular - you can remove all cables.
Semi modeular - cables that power motherboard and cpu cannot be removed, but all other cables are removable.


Powersupply efficiency
When you see something like 80plus silver, it means that the powersource has 80% energy efficiency.
The supply accepts AC current and outputs DC into motherboard and other components. (In that conversion, come power is lost due to heat).
Meaning if you buy a 600W power souce, it must take from the electrical net more than 600, lets say 750W. This would mean that the power supply has efficiency of 80%.
The efficency declared by manufacturer should be met no matter the load on powersupply from the PC's side (there is some tolerance for each level by the way).
Examples of efficiency
80 plus
80 plus bronze   84%
80 plus	silver   86%
80 plus	gold     88%
80 plus	platinum 90%
80 plus titanium 92%


