Primary memory vs Secondary memory
Primary memory - temporary memory - RAM
Secondary memory - memory which is used to store data for long time, must be non-volatile, meaning available also after the the electrical power was off.


HDD - hard drives
Developed in IBM 1956.
Used still today.
The are rotating magnetic disks, with head that reads the polarity of magnets around the disk as binary data. The head is able to both read and write data to a disk.
Rotation speeds - 5400RPM (used in laptops), 7200 (most common), 10000 (high end)
Are connected with SATA to motherboard. (SATA transfer speed 6Gbit/s)
3.5 inch size is used in servers and desktop pc, 2.5 inch in laptops.
After the power is off, the HDD keeps the data on magnetic disk as a state of magnetic polarity (positive and negative). Magnetism is a permanent property
which does not require electricity to hold the data.
If you want to save some money, it is a good idea to buy a pc with SSD and HDD. Save on SSD data that are frequently accessed and on HDD data that are not.


SSD - solid state drive
No moving parts.
USe flash memory chips to store data.
Are faster than HDD.
Quite and energy effitient.
Form factor - 2.5 inch box connected via SATA, M.2 connected via M.2 slot (both store data on flash memory, but connect to mother board via different interfaces)
More resitant to phisical shock compared to HDD.
More expensive.
After power is off, the SSD stores electrons in NAND gate. The value of 0 or 1 is determined by the number of electrons in the gate by their voltage. This
means that there is a possibility that SSD will lose data after it looses it's charge. SSD must be readable after 1 year at 30C according to standart JEDEC .


SSHD - solid state hybrid drive
Is a combination of SSD and HDD.
It automatically determines with firmware whether to save data on the HDD part or SSD part. It determines it by the frequency of accessing those file.
To explain it in different words, the HDD part will store data while the flash memory will be caching the data that need to be accessed often.


Typ:
All drives will eventually brake or loose data, so make a habit of back uping your data.