Monitor
It is a primary output component of a computer. It connects directly to a videocard.


CRT - cathod ray tube
First used in televisions.
Bulky, heavy and no longer in use today.
Images displayed on the screen were due to 3 color (RGB) electron guns, which shoot beams of electrons on the screen, creating image. Thease beams sweep across the monitor many times per second. (constantly redrawing the image)


LCD - liquid crystal display
lighter, thinner, take less power, less space
Known as flat panel displays.
The backlight shines through liquid crystals and RGB filter to produce an image.
The old technology of backlight were fluorescent lamps (really those circular light tubes)
New technology of backlight are LEDs. (produces sharper and more accurate images)
	LEDs have also higher contrast ratio (difference between black and white, higher contrast ratio means darker black and brighter white) 1000:1 compared to fluorescent light which has 600:1.
	1000:1 means that the whites are 1000x brighter than blacks.
	LEDs consume also less power.
	LEDs can also produce thiner displays.
	When you hear the monitor is LED, it basically means that it has LED backlighting, but it is still a LCD display.


OLED - organic light emtitting diode
Each pixel produces its own ilumination without having a separate backlight.
Produces colors wihout using filters.
Used at monitors, phones, and high end TVs
Expensive.
Produce the darkest balcks.
Contrast ratio 100 000:1
Thinner than LED monitors.
Best viewing angles.


TN - twisted nematic
The liquid crystals twist the light as it comes through.
Oldest.
Most affordable.
Best performance - highest refresh rate and fastest response time (response time = how long it takes to change color from one to another).
	When a monitor has a high response time, it eliminates ghosting. This means that at slower monitors the moving object can leave visible trail as it moves.
Ideal for gaming.
Has worse colors.
Has worse viewing angles.


IPS - in-plain switching
The liquid crystals stay in place and are aligned in parallel with a glass.
Has better colors.
Has better viewing angles.
More expensive.
Lower refresh rate.
Slower response time.
Good for photograpers...etc.


VA - vertical alignment
VA panel is something between IPS and TN in every parameter aspect.


Resolution
The number of pixels at a screen.
Pixel is a smallest element in a image.
The more pixels on the same area, the sharper the image.
Eaxmple 1920x1080 as FHD, 3840x2160 as 4K.


Aspect ratio
It is aratio between width and height of a monitor.
Standart is 16:9.


Refresh rate
Means how many means how many times the monitor can draw a new image.


Response time
Response time for monitors is the time it takes to shift from one color to another.