WIFI router
Is stand alone or is one unit with modem.
Provides internet access in local area network through cable and wirelessly.
It is used in homes or small offices.
Has firewall.
Has DHCP service.
Has WAN port (wide area network a.k.a. internet). This is a port where you plug in cable from the modem (...just cable from internet). 
Has usually 4 ports for ethernet connection. (home usage type)

WAP - wireless access point
This is a device that can be optionally used to act as a new transmitter of wireless data from parent
wifi router.
The WAP connects directly to a router via ethernet cable.
You can place multiple WAPs and link them all physically into the same router.
It makes sense to place those WAPs strategically, so that the network has highest wireless range.
So once you got setup across your building ready, this makes management of that network a lot easier
compared to when you would replace those WAPs by other routers.
So in situation when there would be multiple routers on the same level connected to one parent
router, it would add a unnecessary complexity.
If you wanted to make a change, you would have to get into each single router settings.
Now in the case where we have the WAPs, the change can be done only in the parent router.
All those WAPs are basically an extension of the single router.
Does not have firewall.
Does not have DHCP service.

RANGE EXTENDER
WIFI range extender is used to extend the range of the original source of the signal in your home.
This means that you gonna place the extender somewhere in the place which has about 50% (or
depending what you actually need, this number was just an estimate to give you a point) of
the original signal strength. This way the extender will be able to catch the signal and extend it
to the place where the original signal is weak or not available at all. Keep in mind however
that the extender does not extend the original signal. The extender is actually a new network
with its own SSID and password. The extender is connected to the original network and it
extends the signal of the original network. This means that you will have two networks in your
home. The original network and the extended network. (You will see two networks in your list of
available networks on your device).
From my point of view, this is not that much convenient because your device will have to switch
between the networks when you move around your home.

MESH NETWORK
Mesh network is a network of multiple transmission nodes which are connected to each other and they
create a single network. This means that you will have only one network in your home. (Seems like
having a WIFI router is not necessary, because you need to just plug the first (primary)
mesh node with ethernet) Just place the nodes around your home.
You can now just move around the house, and your device will allways connect to the nearest node
seamlessly.
Mesh networks can automatically reroute traffic if one node fails and adjust pathways to optimize
speed and connectivity.

Comparison MESH vs WAP
Performance:
Mesh systems often provide a more user-friendly experience with less hands-on tweaking but might
suffer from decreased speed in distant nodes due to wireless backhaul.
WAPs can offer more consistent speeds if they are connected by wires.

Cost:
Mesh systems can be more expensive due to their advanced technology and ease of setup and use.
In contrast, WAPs might be less expensive but require potentially costly wiring if not already in place.
Setup and Maintenance: Mesh WiFi is generally easier to set up and manage for the average user.
WAPs might require more technical knowledge, especially in routing and managing network cables.
In summary, if you need straightforward, wide-range WiFi coverage with minimal technical setup,
a mesh WiFi system is likely the best choice. However, if you require stable performance,
are comfortable with a more complex setup, or already have Ethernet infrastructure in your home,
adding WAPs could be more effective.
Each option offers a viable solution to improve home WiFi depending on specific household needs and
technical capabilities.
